To study:

Media queries/responsive frameworks
JSON/AJAX
Node.js
Web DB/Mongo
Angular.js
Web Design Principles
Security
XSS Attacks


1) What does this print:
Var sys = require("sys");
setTimeout(function() {sys.puts("hello");} 3000);
sys.puts("world");

A: world hello

3) What does HTTPS guarantee to these three users: Client, Server, Easedropper?

A: Easedropper cannot view information sent by the Client or Server.

4) Why is HTTP a stateless protocol?

A: it does not require the server to retain session information, each request can be understood alone

5) Why are wireframe diagrams handrawn or look hand-drawn?

A: So that you can get feed back on functionality rather than design.

6) Why is the node.js require() function bocking, when all other I/O in node.js is non-blocking?

A: require() calls the nodes that are needed for the function to run, and if it does not block, code that requires that node may run before it is called.

7) MongoDB collection, document, and database are related to each other?

A: Collection = Group of documents, Database = group of collections

8) If a designer creates several different "user personas" for a site, what does that say about their expected demographics for that site?

A: More than one target audience

9) Why did node.js not appear until around 2010? if it had been written before, what would've been different about it?

A: Javascript got faster. Would've been super slow.

10) Why should username/password be sent using HTTPS protocol instead of HTTP Basic Auth?

A: HTTPS is more secure, basic auth just sends it "encrypted" text

11) How and why are media queries used in responsive design

A: can render differently on different size screens

12) what is the essential difference between a persistent and session cookie?

A: Persistent lasts between sessions, has an expiration date, session only last till the site is closed

13) Basic data format of a mongoDB Database?

A: JSON

14) What is a better alternative to storing passwords in an encrypted form? why is it better?

A: Storing password hashes, that are salted, more layers of security.

15) Difference between authentication and authorization?

A: Authentication: Prove who you are, Authorization: Allowing access if you are who you are.

16) Why should passwords never be stored in an encrypted form?

A: Encryption can be broken, and is more obvious

17) When can a web browser delete cookies?

A: When the browser is told to by the user, or when you enter a site with an expired cookie, or when the cookie is modified not by the site itself.

18) What is the important difference between an "Embedded" database and an "external" database.

A: Embedded: Embedded into the application, talks to faster, External: Independent application, usually slower to talk to

19) Define visual Heirarchy.

A: The order your eyes see things on the website.

20) Anonymous function and use in node.js?

A: No name function, acts like a function, but is called right there.

21) explain err and result parameters in Node.js

A: err returns errors that occur during the error, result sends back the end result of the function, both specifically for input and output functions

22) explain the concept of "non-blocking I/O", why does it help programmers?

A: Launches slow running code in the background and runs next line, can write faster code.

23) explain the concept of event emitters in Node.js, and what are they designed to solve?

A: gives callback functions data in small chunks, used for large chunks of data being called

24) Which parts of SQL do NoSQL databases sacrifice to tackle the problem of "scaling out?"

A: Limitation of copies, NoSQL doesn't always gie the most accurate version

25) Explain how the name/value pairs are used when an HTML form is filled out and submitted to a web server

A: the server can use the names of the form's attributes to select the values that it will use as data.

26) why are database api's often considered a very leaky abstraction of an API?

A: Sometimes takes a long time to do stuff, which means stuff is happening under the hood

27) What concepts or terms from the field of a user interface design is a layout grid using, such that our eyes think that a site developed using it looks professional?

A: Proximity, alignment, closure, white space, color, borders